Project Report
It is very important that you clearly and specifically state in your project report what you
have accomplished by the end of the semester. Be concise. I do not want to see code
listings (except maybe pseudo-codes of algorithms to demonstrate a point). Your project
report should be well organized and contain the following information, though the format
and organization is totally up to you:


Name: Elliana Brown
Project Title: Palette to Pixel

Problem Summary: The project aims to tackle the challenge of generating realistic landscapes using computer graphics by drawing inspiration from 
the iconic techniques of the great American landscape painter, Bob Ross. This should ultimately result in the advancement of my 
understanding of algorithms and techniques that can recreate his distinctive brushwork, color harmonies, and composition 
principles within the digital realm. In doing so, I hope to help advance the field of landscape generation, bridging the gap 
between traditional artistry and cutting-edge computer graphics, ultimately creating environments that evoke the same sense of 
tranquility and natural beauty as found in Ross's renowned works. This endeavor is important/interesting for several reasons. For one, it offers an opportunity to delve into the intersection of 
traditional art and cutting-edge technology, showcasing the potential of computer graphics in artistic endeavors. Secondly, it 
will provide valuable insight into the art of rendering landscapes – a necessary skill for nearly every computer graphics 
professional. Finally, this project has the potential to incorporate many skills from the field of computer graphics, especially 
when considering the more minute details like brushstrokes. Compiling all these detailed elements into one piece is sure to be 
interesting. The project will involve digitally recreating at least one Bob Ross painting using graphics software/tools. To do this, I will 
analyze and deconstruct Ross’s techniques – especially in regard to brushstroke patterns, color harmonies, and spatial 
arrangement. Then, I will implement algorithms and procedural generation methods to simulate natural elements i.e., trees, 
mountains, bodies of water, etc. that mirror those in the works of Bob Ross until I have a finished piece.

Description of Work: I implemented a Python Turtle program to draw a mountain and trees landscape. The program uses a recursive function called mountain() to draw a mountain range. The mountain() function takes two points as input, the start point and the end point of the mountain range. It then randomly generates a third point between the start and end points. The function then recursively calls itself on the two new line segments, one from the start point to the third point and the other from the third point to the end point.
The program also uses two functions, add_tree_shape() and draw_trees(), to add and draw tree shapes. The add_tree_shape() function registers the tree2.gif image as a shape and sets the turtle shape to the tree shape. The draw_trees() function draws 5 trees at random locations on the screen.

Major "dead end" paths of research and why they failed
One dead end path was attempted to fill the mountain. Unfortunately, Python turtle only allows for solid colors to fill shapes like that. 
Major challenges encountered
One major challenge encountered was that all the trees/bushes used originally completely overwhelmed the scene. They were huge by comparison and completely swallowed the landscape. I was eventually forced to find alternate sources that were smaller.

Results

The resulting program is able to draw realistic mountain and trees landscapes. The mountain range looks natural and the trees are placed in a way that looks realistic. The screenshot provided displays the final result - although the mountain itself changes everytime the program is run.



Analysis of work

Overall, I am happy with the results of this project. The program is able to draw a semi-realistic mountain and trees landscapes. However, there are still some areas for improvement. For example, the program could be improved by the addition of finding new ways texture to the mountain as well as finding a way to incorporate brushstrokes.

Additional notes

The program uses the PIL library to load the tree and bush images. The PIL library is a popular Python library for image processing.

The program also uses the math library to calculate the slope of the mountain range. The math library is a standard Python library for mathematical operations.

